People often decide to build their own houses to allow their dreams to become reality or to get more bang for their buck. Usually, draftsmen, architects, or home designers serve as the medium allowing someone’s dream home to be laid out on paper. Imagine if a medium was not needed to place a dream on paper. The goal of DIY Planner is to allow one with no background in architecture or design to build one’s own floor plan, thus allowing a more intimate experience in the home design process.

	This product should be an easy-to-use website that allows users to design houses by interacting with buttons. The first thing a user will be able to do is choose how many floors the house will have. It will be assumed that basements and attics are not present in the house unless indicated by the user. A good website would have a nice balance between being easy to use and being flexible. This means that it should be easy to use, but not restrict the user from being creative in the design process. The user should also be able to view the creation in 2D as well as 3D. A geographical lighting feature can be added that allows the user to judge whether the windows are in the desired places. 
	
Rather than in the usual process of floor planning where the architect seems like the writer and the dreamer seems like the editor, the roles can be reversed. There should be some functionality in this website that allows a floor plan which a user designed to be emailed directly to a draftsman, architect, or home designer affiliated with the host site to get approved for use or receive edits and/or recommendations. An ideal setting for this tool would be a well-known hardware store such as Home Depot or Lowe’s. A feature that predicts the range of the cost of a house based on its zip code, square footage and the type of material that will be used for the house (for example: wood, concrete, bricks, etc.) will be available as part of the tool. Square footage will always be provided from the plan itself, but if someone leaves out the zip code and and/or type of material, the price range should be wider due to the unknowns.

	The smallest version of this product should be able to perform the basic task of allowing an individual to create a single-story house through clicking buttons. This should be a website suitable for screens ranging from 13 through 15 inches. Once a 2D planner is made and tested, the next goal is to make the planner translate a 2D plan to a 3D home visually. The phase that would follow this is the implementation of other interesting features such as lighting, pricing, and deployment of floor plans to DIY Planner professionals.
